The Project Gutenberg eBook of The rag pickers, by Madeline Leslie

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The rag pickers
       and other stories

Author: Madeline Leslie

Release Date: June 30, 2023 [eBook #71080]

Language: English

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RAG PICKERS ***

Transcriber's note: Unusual and inconsistent spelling is as printed.

[Illustration: The Rag Pickers.]



                       THE RAG PICKERS,

                             AND

                       Other Stories.



                   BY MRS. MADELINE LESLIE,



   AUTHOR OF "TIM THE SCISSORS GRINDER," "SEQUEL TO TIM,"
            "THE BOUND BOY," "THE PRIZE BIBLE,"
                  "TIM'S SISTER," ETC.




                          BOSTON:
                  PUBLISHED BY HENRY HOYT,
                      NO. 9 CORNHILL.



  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by
                        HENRY HOYT,
        In the Clerk's Office of the District Court
             of the District of Massachusetts.



DAKIN & DAVIES,
Electrotypers and Stereotypers,
21 Cornhill, Boston.



CONTENTS.

THE LITTLE RAG PICKER.

    CHAPTER I. THE RAG AND COAL FIELD.

    CHAPTER II. THE COUNTERFEIT DOLLAR.

EDDY AND HIS FISHES.

    CHAPTER I. THE CRUEL BOY.

    CHAPTER II. EDDY'S RESOLUTION.

WILLIE'S GRAVE.

    CHAPTER I. VISIT TO THE GRAVEYARD.

    CHAPTER II. WILLIE'S HAPPY DEATH.

THE SUBSTITUTE.

    CHAPTER I. GRANDMA FROST.

    CHAPTER II. THE SOLDIER.

    CHAPTER III. JOTHAM'S DEATH.

THE HOSPITAL.

    CHAPTER I. ALICK'S DYING SONG.

    CHAPTER II. THE PATIENT CHILD.

JOHNNY'S FRETTING.

    CHAPTER I. JOHNNY'S HOME.

    CHAPTER II. JOHNNY'S RESOLUTIONS.



The Little Rag Picker.

CHAPTER I.

THE RAG AND COAL FIELD.

"DADDY, isn't it almost time to go home?" called out little
six-year-old Dilly Hogan. "Daddy, I'm tired, I am; I want to go home
and see mammy."

Her father, or Bill Hogan as he was called by his companions, was a
man, with a hard, stern face. He heard his little girl, no doubt, for
she was on the ground, close to his feet; but he made no answer.

I suppose you will want to know what poor Dilly had been doing to tire
her so. Had she been throwing ball, or rolling hoop, or jumping rope?
No.

Had she been playing with her dollies, putting on and taking off their
best dresses, until she was tired with play? Oh, no!

Dilly knew nothing of these amusements, except as she sometimes saw
children playing in the streets, or a little miss carrying a large
dolly almost as smartly dressed as herself.

What was Dilly doing then? Why, she was a rag and coal picker. As soon
as she was out of bed in the morning, she had some Indian porridge or
a piece of dry bread, or sometimes a potato, and then she started off
with her father, mother, and brothers, to pick rags, old paper, or coal.

Perhaps you have never heard of a coal field, and so I will tell you
about it. Near almost all large cities some place is set apart where
the rubbish gathered from the streets is carried. Persons who live in
nice houses do not like to have old coal, broken crockery, or rags
lying around their small yards, and so they gather all these things
into barrels or boxes, and men go round with carts and take them away.
These they carry and empty all over the great field kept for the
purpose; and here men, women, and children go and gather up what they
please.

This is a hard way to get a living, but the poor people who worked at
it were glad to do anything to keep them from starving. The first man
or woman who went into the field had the right to make choice of the
place where he would work; so he walked quickly over the ground to see
if one place looked better than another; and then he set himself to
work, knowing that whatever he found would be his own.

Here old cinders, broken crockery, decayed potatoes or pumpkins, were
thrown into the same heap with dirty house-cloths, old paper, or any
kind of rubbish.

Some of the men who worked hero lived a few miles out of town, and were
able to make a better living by keeping a horse and cart, and carrying
away for sale so much of the coal as their neighbors wished to sell.

Here it was that poor Dilly had worked for ten long hours. Do you
wonder she was tired? Oh, how she longed to jump up and run about, for
her limbs ached from being bent under her. When she stopped just for
a moment to look about, her father said, "Mind your work, Dilly!" or
"Child, let other folks alone, and mind your own business!"

Then the little girl bent over her basket, her face growing every
moment more sad, and wondering whether she should have to pick coal
every day of her life.

To make the best of it, this was a bad school for Dilly to be brought
up in, for she heard men, women, and even children swearing around her;
and very often persons quarrelling about the lots they had marked out.

But there was one reason why the child was very anxious to go home.
Only the night before God had sent her a baby brother, and she was just
allowed to take a peep at him, as he lay on the straw pallet by her
mother, before her father called her to go to work.

At last her father halloed to a man going by with an old shaky cart, to
draw up and take his coal.

Dilly sprang to her feet, jumping with joy.

"Do keep still, can't ye?" cried Pat, her brother, in a surly tone.

"And what for would ye grudge the child the little comfort she has?"
said Bill Hogan, turning toward his son in a threatening manner.

"And aren't ye glad to go home and see the baby, Pat?" inquired the
child, laying her hand caressingly on his arm.

The boy shook her off without replying, and presently, her father
having received the small sum due him for coal and junk, started to
leave the field.

All around them the rag pickers were crying out for the carts,
impatient to be gone, and Dilly, passing some children of her
acquaintance, in a glad tone said, "I've got a baby, I have!"

When they were near the street where they lived, Bill Hogan stopped at
a grocer's to buy some meal and a loaf of bread. He wanted to buy an
ounce of tea for his sick wife, but after looking at the few coppers
left in his hand, turned with a sigh from the counter.

In a few minutes they were at their own door. Dilly pulled her hand
from her father, and darted up the rickety stairs.

"I want to see my baby!" she exclaimed, in an eager tone.

"Hush, child, the poor little cratur's slaping," said the mother softly.

Mrs. Hogan was sitting up on the straw, leaning against the side of the
wall, trying to mend an old shirt for her husband. Her face was very
pale, and as Bill and Pat came up the stairs, she cast a wishful glance
at them. It said as plainly as looks could speak, "I am hungry. Have
you brought me anything?"

The man did not reply, but calling Pat to pick up a few sticks, he took
the only kettle in their possession, and went to a neighboring pump for
some water.

When he returned, Dilly was on her knees by the bed, making the room
ring with her merry laugh, as she touched by turns the soft cheeks and
the rosy fingers of the baby boy.

"Will ye have a piece of the loaf now?" inquired Bill.

"Have ye enough for all?" she asked, with motherly anxiety.

He sighed as he broke a piece and put it into her hand.

Half an hour later the porridge was ready, and Dilly reluctantly left
the baby to eat her portion. What was her delight to see a beautiful
china cup in her father's hand, and to hear him say, "There, Dilly, I
found that to-day among the old rubbish, and I saved it for you."

"It's always for Dilly ye're saving," muttered Pat sullenly.

"Get ye off to bed," said his father sternly, "I've enough to bear
without your grumblings."

The next day when they reached the field, they found two women
quarrelling about a lot which both of them had chosen; but without
making any effort to settle their difficulty, Mr. Hogan called his
children to follow him and went off to the farther end of the field.
The lot he chose happened to be a very poor one, and long before night
he had cleaned it of everything that was valuable.

Leaning his head on his hands he sighed heavily.

"We must all starve together," he said again and again. "There is no
use in trying any longer. Now there's another mouth to feed, and winter
coming on, there is nothing for us but to die."

Dilly heard her father and began to cry, but presently she went close
to him, put her arms around his neck and laid her warm cheek against
his.

If Dilly had been taught as you have, my little reader, she could have
whispered words of comfort in his ear. She could have told him that God
would take care of them, that he watches the sparrows, and gives the
young ravens their food, and surely he will not forget the creatures he
has made to love and serve him.

But though our little rag picker was a warm-hearted, loving child, she
knew nothing about God, nor about the dear Saviour, who came into the
world. So she only put her arms round him and said, "I love ye, daddy,
I do."

Even this made the man feel much better. His face grew soft as he gazed
at her, and his breast heaved as he said—

"After all, Dilly, I'd be worse off without ye; and now as we can't do
any more here to-day, we will go home."

Leaving Pat to watch by their rags and coal till the carts came round,
they walked briskly on, for the man had determined to take advantage of
the opportunity and go through a street where a partly-burned house was
being pulled down, in hope of getting some half-burned sticks of wood.

The gentleman who owned the place happened to be there, and seeing that
Bill was sober and looked extremely destitute, he told him he might
carry away as much wood as he could until dark.

"Now we wont have to starve, will we, daddy?" cried Dilly, jumping up
and down in her joy.

"No danger of that, I hope," said the gentleman.

Mr. Hogan put his hand quickly to his breast, and turned away suddenly
without saying a word.

"Come, little girl, you shall tell me all about it," continued the
stranger kindly. "Don't you have enough to eat?"

"Oh, yes," she said, "and when I go home I shall have some porridge in
my pretty cup. I've got a new baby, too. He's real funny, but he can't
open his eyes yet—he's too little."

Before Dilly had finished her story, her father had gathered a large
pile of wood, and tied it together with a cord he found in the street.
This he took on his back, and then turning to the gentleman said, "I
have five mouths to feed, and if ye could recommend me some work better
than picking rags, I'll bless ye as long as I live."

Then turning to Dilly, he said, "Come child," and adding, "with your
leave, sir, I'll be back soon," walked rapidly away.

The last load had been piled up against the wall, and the family were
about retiring to their rest, when a knock was heard at the door,
and Dilly sprang joyfully forward to meet her acquaintance of the
afternoon. A young lady accompanied him, whom he introduced as his
daughter.

"Father told me about the little girl with her new baby," said the
lady, smiling, as she patted the child's head, "and I came to ask her
to go to sabbath school. I am getting up a class for myself."

"We were Protestants in the old country," said Mrs. Hogan, "and I'd be
thankful indeed to have her go, but it's yourself'll be loth to take
her, I'm thinking, when ye know she owns no clothes but what she has on
this minute."

"Oh, I'll make her some clothes," urged the lady, "if you'll let her
come, and the boy, too! Only you must promise to keep them clean for
Sunday."

"I'm so glad," said Dilly, dancing about on her toes. "I'll be ever so
good, I will."

"I am sorry to see you looking so feeble," added the lady, turning
toward the corner where Mrs. Hogan lay with her infant at her breast.

"Thank you, miss," replied the woman, gratefully. "If I had a lighter
heart, I'd be better at once, though the poor baby is only two days
old."

"I wish to have the yard, where you saw the wood, cleared of the burnt
rubbish," remarked the gentleman, who had been a smiling witness of his
daughter's success, and of Dilly's delight. "If you can do no better, I
will give you employment there for a few days."

Mr. Hogan gratefully accepted the proposal, saying, "I shall be glad,
sir, to do anything that is honest. It is a hard business to fill five
mouths with what one can earn by rag picking."



CHAPTER II.

THE COUNTERFEIT DOLLAR.

PAT, however, continued in his old employment. He was entirely
different from Dilly, who was a favorite with all the children, on
account of her loving heart and cheerful temper. Pat was both selfish
and sullen. He was ready to quarrel at the least offence of his
companions. When the rude boys saw him come alone to the field, and
select a spot for himself to clear, they said, "Now for some fun!"

They watched their chance when he had made a pile of coal and another
of rags, and came up toward him as if for a friendly chat. Suddenly
they threw themselves down, thus overturning all his work and obliging
him to commence again.

Pat sprang to his feet and doubled his fist, screaming with anger.

"Come, now, be still, will ye?" cried one of them. "What harm have we
done ye, anyhow?" At the same time he winked to his companions, to
carry on the sport.

Pat saw the glance. He flew at the lad; and the affair might have
become serious, had not an older man who was quietly at work near by
interfered. He had witnessed the whole proceedings, and told the boys
they had no business with Pat's lot, any way.

He separated them with some difficulty, and then returned to his work.

Pat had been pleased when his father told him he might work alone, and
have all he could earn; but now he found it not so pleasant. Though he
would not have confessed it, he missed Dilly's cheerful voice and sunny
smile. The morning seemed very long, and by the time he sat down to
eat a crust of bread which he had brought for his dinner, he had half
determined to go home.

A few days before this, a party of ladies and gentlemen came into the
field to watch the men, women, and children at their work. They stopped
near the lot his father had selected and began to talk with a couple
who were busily engaged in sorting rags. Pat had been near enough to
hear what was said.

"You have a large pile of rubbish there," said one lady. "Do you make
much by it?"

"And sure, ma'am," the woman answered, "we get a living; but it's a
hard way."

"Tell us how you manage," said a gentleman.

"It's jist this way, sir," interrupted the man. "We comes here and
takes each our own lot, striving, of coorse, for the best, sure. Then
we sets ourselves to work to find what we can. Sometimes there's very
little, and then again, there's more. My woman and I first picks out
all the coal, putting it in one pile, and the junk in another, like
this."

"But what can you do with those rotten pumpkins and potatoes?"

"And sure, that's a fine chance for us, ma'am. We live out of the city
a bit, and kape a cow and a pig, besides a horse and a hen; so it's bad
luck, indeed, if we don't find something to feed them all with."

"You are better off than I thought," rejoined the lady, smiling. "I
suppose you own a cart, too, and carry your treasures home in it."

"Indeed, we do, ma'am; and that is it carrying off junk. We hires it
out to our neighbors to carry their coal home, and their rags to the
junk store. Ye'd laugh, ma'am, when we gets home, to see the craters
jump into the cart to get their supper."

"You seem to make a very good living," remarked one of the gentlemen.

"We don't complain, sir," answered the man frankly. "We're not beholden
to the city for a penny since we first landed in the States."

"Do you ever find anything of value money or jewels?"

"Feth, sir, and that's seldom. I wont deny we do find a little money."

"Well, I hope you'll make a good day of it to-day," said the lady,
turning to another group.

Ever since he had heard that money was occasionally found with the
other rubbish, Pat had been eagerly searching for some. This was why
he had been so pleased to be alone. Every bit of broken glass or
shining paper upon which the sun shone was eagerly seized and carefully
examined.

After the rude boys left him to his work, Pat slowly went on sorting
his piles again. He was quite discouraged, and wished he was anything
in the world but a rag and coal picker. Suddenly he rushed forward to
pull a pile of rubbish nearer to his seat when a torn envelope fell at
his feet. He was just about to throw it away when it occurred to him to
see whether it contained anything. He put in his soiled fingers, and to
his astonishment pulled out a bank-bill—a one dollar bank-bill!

His first impulse was to secrete it,—glancing around to see whether any
one had been watching him,—and then to go on rapidly with his work, as
if nothing unusual had happened to him.

His heart beat faster than ever, as he remembered how much a dollar
would buy!—a pair of boots, or a new jacket. Yes, he had seen a jacket
at the secondhand store costing just one dollar.

Once, to be sure, he did think how poorly his mother was dressed;
and how much good the money would do her; but, no; he would keep it
himself. He had found it, and it was his.

As night approached he sold his coal and junk to the man who owned
a cart and could more readily dispose of them, then hurried away to
procure his new jacket before he went home.

The shop was already lighted when he reached it. He pointed to the
jacket, which he was pleased to see had not been sold; tried it on,
and it proved a very good fit. He buttoned it tightly to his chin,
and found it exceedingly comfortable. Then he took the envelope from
his pocket, and detaching the bill passed it to the merchant and was
walking off, when the man called out, angrily,—

"Here, you young rascal, you just take that 'ere coat right off! Your
money aint worth one copper! It's counterfeit."

"Counterfeit!" stammered Pat, ready to cry. "What is a counterfeit?"

"Don't you think to try any of your dodges on me," screamed the man,
"I've cut my eye-teeth, I tell you. Take it off, I say, or I'll have
the police here."

"I don't know what you mean," faltered Pat, beginning to sob. "You said
'twas a dollar, and I give you a dollar."

"No, you didn't, you only give me a counterfeit, and here 'tis,"
tearing the bill in halves.

Pat started forward to rescue his money, now really angry. "It's mine,"
he screamed. "I found it in the rags."

"Oho!" said the merchant, beginning to understand. "So you found it,
hey? Well, I'm sorry for you; but 'twasn't a real dollar; it only
looked like one. When you get a real dollar I'll sell you the jacket."

Poor Pat went home very much crestfallen. "I hate rag picking," he
exclaimed, entering the room he called home.

"See what a nice supper I've got," cried Dilly. "I can take good care
of baby. Only think, Pat, there's potatoes, and porridge, too. I'm so
glad, I am."

"The lady has been here again," said Mrs. Hogan, trying to cheer her
boy. "She has persuaded the gentleman to give your father work on the
lumber-wharf."

This was indeed true. This kind man, who was a well known friend to the
poor, inquired the character of Mr. Hogan, and, finding him to be a man
of strictly temperate habits, resolved to give him steady employment.

The young lady, too, had been as true as her word. She had this day
brought clothes for the two children, besides many articles for their
parents, and the baby.

Pat was quite comforted when he found that he had a jacket quite as
good as the one at the shop. The next sabbath he went with Dilly to
sabbath school; and, after this, continued to attend regularly. They
both learned to read the Bible and to obey the commands of God.

Our little rag picker is a rag picker no longer; but she is good Dilly,
still, with her warm heart and cheerful temper. She has learned about
the Saviour, and how he loves good children, and every day she tries to
please him.

Pat did not long continue in the business after his father left it.
The lady insisted that he ought to attend the day school, that he
might be prepared to be a more useful man. This he did for nearly a
year, filling up his time when out of school by carrying parcels for a
neighboring grocer, and thus earning something toward his own support.

Now, little girl or boy, can you guess why I have written this story
for you? It is that you may be grateful to God, who has given you a
pleasant home and enough to eat; that he has given you friends to teach
you about the Saviour, and that you may learn to do as the kind lady
did—to pity and do good to those who are poor and distressed.



Eddy and His Fishes.

CHAPTER I.

THE CRUEL BOY.

"EDDY! please don't hurt so. I can't bear to see you!" sobbed little
Susy, wiping her eyes with the back of her fat hand.

"What a baby you are, to cry just for these little fishes," replied
Eddy, in a contemptuous tone. "I don't believe they can feel anything."

"They do! they do! See how they kick about."

Eddy laughed aloud, "ha! ha! ha! who ever heard of fishes kicking? Now
here's a fat fellow, I'll cut him up, and see him kick."

Susy, with a fresh burst of tears ran toward the house.

"What's the matter, my dear?" inquired her aunt, coming to the door.

The child hung her head. She did not like to complain of her cousin,
but as the lady insisted, and asked again, "Where is Eddy? What is he
doing?" she began,—

"We went down to the brook and a boy was there catching little mite of
fishes; and when he had done, he gave us some to fry for our dinner,
but Eddy said he didn't want to eat them, so he put them on a board and
chopped 'em all up with his hatchet."

The lady gave a scream of horror. "Where is he? Show me quick, Susy."

"It makes me ache, in here," sobbed the child, putting her hand to her
breast. "I can't bear to see him hurt them."

Mrs. Lander did not speak, but her face was very pale, and she hurried
on to the place where Eddy was still at his cruel sport.

The boy was so intent upon his wicked employment that he did not hear
their steps; but threw his hatchet to the ground quickly when he heard
his mother's voice calling, "Stop, Eddy! Stop at once!"

Oh, what a scene that was! On the top of an old wall lay a piece of
board covered with pieces of the fishes. Their pretty, shining scales
glistening in the sun. One, the last of the number, lay with a piece
chopped off its tail, writhing in its agony.

Tears filled the lady's eyes, as she turned with a shudder to the boy,
and exclaimed,—

"O Eddy! O my son! what will become of you? what a cruel, wicked boy
you are!"

"They're mine," cried the child, his face growing very red. "A boy at
the brook gave them to me." He glanced angrily at his cousin, because
she had, as he thought, called his mother.

Mrs. Lander shook her head. "I couldn't have believed you would do
so," she said, in a sorrowful tone. "See," she added, picking up the
hatchet, "this is covered with the blood of the poor creatures. You
have made such a wicked use of your uncle's present, that I shall take
it away from you."

"It isn't yours! you've no right to! Uncle said it was to be my own!"
shouted the boy, now in a fury of passion. He even tried to snatch it
from her hands, and when he found he could not, he threw himself on the
ground, kicking and screaming with all his might.

"Eddy, stop this minute, and come with me," said Mrs. Lander, in a
firm, decided tone. She took him by the hand, and though he dared not
disobey; yet he showed by his struggles that he went reluctantly. He
was a boy of quick passions, but the fit of temper soon passed away;
and by the time they reached the house, he looked and felt really
ashamed of his conduct.

Mrs. Lander led him away to a room by himself, and then left, after
telling him she wanted him to reflect upon his cruelty and bad temper;
poor little Susy following her to her chamber, where she seated herself
on a low stool, looking very sober indeed.

Mrs. Lander had been cutting work, and now returned to it with a sad
countenance. For some time not a word was spoken, but at last, the lady
noticed that Susy looked pale, and said, "You had better run out and
play, my dear; or get your dollies? and dress them for a walk."

"Please, aunt," said the soft voice, "I don't feel like playing now;"
and then, in a minute, she lifted her eyes wistfully to her aunt's face
as she asked, "Wont God forgive Eddy this time? I don't want him to be
naughty any longer."

Her red lips quivered, and she choked back a sob as she gazed earnestly
at her aunt, waiting for a reply, but the lady did not speak for a
moment. She drew Susy to her side and kissed her tenderly, and then
taking her by the hand led her away to Eddy's room.

The little fellow was very quiet now. He ran eagerly to his cousin and
drew her into the room, and then, in a humble tone, said, "I'm very
sorry, mamma, I vexed you. I've got over my passion now."

She put her hand on his head, but she did not smile; indeed her face
looked very, very sad.

"Please forgive me?" urged the boy.

"Yes, I will gladly forgive you, Eddy; but your conduct makes me
very unhappy. What comfort can I expect from a child, who, on every
trifling occasion, gives way to his passionate temper? And then think
how displeasing your behavior, this morning, has been to your heavenly
Father. Have you asked him to forgive you?"

Eddy blushed as he hung his head.

"No, mamma," he faltered; "but I will now."

They knelt together, Mrs. Lander and her boy, with Susy close by his
side, her loving face beaming with satisfaction. The lady' prayed
first—that her son might truly repent of his sins and earnestly ask the
help of God to become a good boy; then Eddy said his little prayer,
begging forgiveness for all that he had done displeasing to his
heavenly Father.

After this, Susy kissed him and smiled as she said, "I'm glad you're
good, now, Eddy."

As his mother left the room, Eddy wondered that she said nothing about
the fishes. Usually, after she had forgiven him his heart was light,
and he loved to sit near her and watch her smiles; but now she sat busy
with her work, and he thought her face was very sober.



CHAPTER II.

EDDY'S RESOLUTION.

WHEN Eddy went to his room for the night, his mother always went with
him, and, as he said, they had a fine time together. First he knelt
by his low chair and repeated his prayers and hymns, and then she
added a few simple petitions, asking the protection of God through the
night. After this he loved to call to mind the actions of the past day,
to receive praise when he had tried to conquer his quick temper, or
encouragement to do better when he confessed his faults. On the evening
following this day, Mrs. Lander summoned them earlier than usual, and
then said, "I have a story, a true story, to tell you—one which I want
you, Eddy, to remember as long as you live."

"There was once a little boy, whom I will call James. When he was very
young he began to show a cruel disposition. He loved to stand near the
window and pull the wings off the flies. Then he would laugh and clap
his hands to see how they writhed about in their agony."

"As he grew older he tormented every animal on the place. One day he
caught two kittens, and having tied their tails together, hung them
over the clothes-line. Then he ran to call his companions, and tried to
make them enjoy the cruel sport as much as he did. When his sister came
home from school, and found what he was doing, she burst into tears.
Instead of soothing her by the promise that he would never do so again,
he laughed as he related the torture of the poor kittens."

"His father had a favorite dog, named Frisk, a faithful creature, to
whom all the family were attached; but so dreadfully cruel was this
wicked boy, that one day when his parents were absent from home, he
found a large piece of board, and nailed Frisk to it by his four legs,
each being stretched to its utmost length."

"The poor dog whined and cried most piteously, but James persevered
until the poor creature was firmly fastened to the board. Having done
this, he ran to cell his sister, and stood laughing at her distress."

"'Oh, take him off! take out the nails quick! he'll die!' screamed
the poor girl. 'O James, see how the blood runs!' Finding he would
not listen to her entreaties, she ran to the nearest house to call
a neighbor; and they had just succeeded in releasing Frisk from his
dreadful position, when her parents drove into the yard."

"'If he were my boy,' said the neighbor, after he had related in what
a situation he found the poor dog, 'If he were my boy, I should give
him a taste of the horsewhip for his cruelty. I've heard of his tricks
before to-day.'"

"James was whipped most severely, besides being confined to his room
for two days; but it did him no good. Only the next week, in a fit of
passion, he threw one of the kitties into a boiler of hot water, where
it died in dreadful agony."

"James was a bright boy in his studies, and almost always stood at the
head of his class at school, but his schoolmates despised him for his
fiery temper and his cruel disposition. He seemed to like nothing so
well as to see others suffer. Even the little children at the school
were afraid of him, for he often fixed pins in the cracks of their
seats, so as to make them scream with pain, or hid their dinner-pails,
and then laughed when they cried with hunger."

"I cannot stop to tell you all the wickedness of James's early life;
but must pass over a great many years, till the time he was a man. He
was quite distinguished for his learning, and having sense enough to
conceal his wickedness, he had come to occupy an important station in
society."

"One day a man who owed him a bill, entered his office, when, in order
to avoid paying it, James struck the man a violent blow which killed
him. Then he cut the body into small pieces, burning some of it, and
hiding the rest. He was suspected of the crime, tried, condemned, and
hung; and this was the end of the cruel boy."

"O mamma!" cried Eddy, "I'll never do so again. I'll never be cruel any
more!"

Susy sat wiping away her tears with her dimpled hand, when Mrs. Lander
called them both to her side. "Do you wonder, now, my dear, that I
was so distressed this morning when I saw you chopping up the little
fishes! My heart ached lest you should become like that wicked man."

"I never will hurt anything again," urged Eddy, trying to keep back his
tears. "I will try to be kind to them, as Susy is."

"That is right, my dear boy. If ever you feel inclined to be cruel,
think of the sad end of James; think of what the Bible tells you, 'The
merciful man regardeth the life of his beast,' and pray God to help you
to be merciful. Remember, too, my dear Eddy, that unless you learn to
conquer your hasty temper, you will do many things while, in a passion,
which you will afterwards regret. Every time you check yourself and
control your temper, it will become easier for you to do so, while
every time you give way to it, you make it more difficult to reform."

"But, mamma," cried Eddy, "sometimes I'm as pleasant as possible, and
cook, or the nurse, worry me, and make me mad. It's not my fault then.
I'd be good enough, if I was let alone."

"It is wrong in any one to try to vex you, my child," said his mother;
"but that does not excuse you for doing wrong. We must all expect to
meet with trials, but we must not give way to them. Ever since your
uncle Edward gave you a drum and sword, you have liked to play soldier.
Now, I'll tell you a good game, one which the Bible recommends. Call
your quick temper, your impatience, and fretfulness, your enemies, and
fight them as much as you please. Be too much of a man and a soldier to
let your passion gain the victory over you; but fight till you conquer,
then you may beat the drum over every successful battle."

Eddy's eyes flashed with a new light. He stood up proudly, gazing first
at his mother, then at Susy, and at last exclaimed, "I'll do it!"



Willie's Grave.

CHAPTER I.

VISIT TO THE GRAVEYARD.

DID you ever go into a graveyard, and walk around among the graves? Did
you ever measure whether any of the little mounds were shorter than you?

I am going to tell you a true story about a grave I once saw. It was
on a lovely June day, that, in company with some friends, I took the
cars to visit a large cemetery in the State of New York. As we were all
strangers, we paid a man, whom we found near the gate, to show us the
way through the winding paths, to the handsomest parts of the place. As
we walked along, on every side of us were splendid monuments marking
the spot where some dear father or mother or child had been buried.

Presently I heard the voices of children, and then a sweet, musical
laugh. I hurried on to the edge of a lovely lake, and there saw a dear
little girl throwing crumbs from her basket to some beautiful white
swans that were springing from the water to catch them. Her brother, a
year or two older than she, was standing by her side, looking pleased
to see her so happy.

"What is your name, little girl?" I asked.

She gave me a quick glance from under her long lashes, and then softly
answered, "Lily."

I smiled as I took her hand in mine; and then her brother said, "Her
name is Lily Oliver. We come here almost every day to feed the swans,
and bring flowers for mother's grave."

He glanced toward a handsome monument, close by, and Lily explained,
"Mamma's in there. She's waiting for Berty and me, 'cause we're going
up to God with her."

"She told us she'd wait," urged the boy, fixing his earnest eyes on
mine. "Every night we pray to God to let us go quick, because we want
to see her so."

There was a quiver in his voice, which brought tears to my eyes. For a
moment I could not speak, my heart ached so much for these dear little
ones whose mother was in heaven.

I held a hand of each as I said, "I'm sure if you are good children,
and try to please the Saviour, that he will send his angels to watch
over you, and at last take you, with your mother, to the happy world
where he lives."

Lily smiled and nodded her head as I walked away; and presently I heard
her sweet voice laughing merrily as the pretty birds sprang up to catch
a crumb from her hand.

We passed one small yard almost hidden among the trees, where by the
side of a low, green mound, was a flat piece of white marble, with a
dog carved on the top of it.

This, our guide told us, was where a little boy was buried who had been
drowned. The dog was carved like one who had tried to save his young
master's life. He held the clothes of the drowning boy in his teeth,
until help came, but they were so exhausted that they both died.

Then we came to a short grave, only as long as your baby brother. There
was a piece of wood at the head of it, and painted on it were the
simple words, "OUR JAMIE."

Lying on the grass which grew over it, was a tiny red shoe—the toe all
sucked just as little babies love to suck their shoes; and tied to the
end of the string were four large buttons. I wanted to stop there, and
think about the dear babe who had so early been called to its home in
the skies; but a young woman came up, and snatching the little shoe
began to kiss it and weep over it.

"That is the mother," said our guide; and so we turned away that we
might not intrude on her grief.

We walked slowly on, for our hearts ached for the weeping mother, and
presently the guide led us up quite a steep path, to a family tomb
built in the side of the hill. The door leading down the steps was
in front; but it did not look at all like a place for the dead. It
looked far more like a child's play-house. There were posts at the four
corners of the yard, and an iron chain running from one to another.
Opposite the door to the tomb was a gate from which a walk led into the
yard. It was not covered with gravel like the others, but with little
round pebbles from the seashore, mingled with sparkling shells. On one
side was a large rocking-horse, which had been out so long in the rain
and storm, that the saddle was damp with mildew, and the paint was
quite washed off the rockers.

On the other side of the walk was a small wheelbarrow, half full of
little pebbles.

"Do you know who is buried here?" I asked the guide.

"We must walk along," he said hurriedly, without answering my question.
"There's a funeral coming up this path."

I was sorry to go away, for I wanted to hear about the little boy or
girl who had been called away from its toys. I wanted to ask whether
the child had loved God, and had gone to live with the Saviour; but
there was no time, now. We turned off into a side path, and then after
the procession of mourners had passed on, we followed to an open grave
where a child was to be buried.

We all stood back while the men lowered the small coffin into the
ground, and then I ventured near and looked down the narrow vault. I
thought of the time when my little babe was buried from my sight, and
the tears flowed down my cheeks.

"Did you ever lose a child?" sobbed a woman near me, catching hold of
my arm.

"Yes," I said; "it was my first, and then, my only one."

"Did it die suddenly?"

I bowed my head.

"Then you can pity me. Yesterday, my darling Amy was as well as ever.
Her father brought in some cherries, and she begged for some. I gave
her three. Oh, how she jumped and screamed with joy!"

Hero the poor mother began to cry and sob so violently that she could
not speak. A young woman near tried to soothe her, and presently said,
turning to me, "Poor little Amy got a cherry-stone down her windpipe,
and it killed her."

"Oh, dear!" sobbed the weeping mother. "Only yesterday she was alive,
and so happy; I can't go home without her! Oh, what shall I do?"

"Can't you trust her with her Savior?" I asked. "You know how he loved
little children. It was very hard for me, at first; but now it comforts
me to think that my baby boy is happy in heaven. He wears—"

   "'A crown upon his forehead
     A harp within his hand.'"

"He is clothed with spotless robes and with the choir of infant
worshippers is singing praise to the Lamb forever. Doesn't it comfort
you to think of Amy there?"

She wiped away her tears and said, softly, "I should love to think of
her in heaven; but, oh, I shall be dreadfully lonesome without her."

I put out my hand and she shook it as if she could not bear to part.
When we were almost out of sight, I looked back, and she was weeping
bitterly, while the sexton began to throw the earth upon the coffin.



CHAPTER II.

WILLIE'S HAPPY DEATH.

As we passed the yard where we had seen the rocking-horse, we found two
ladies standing near the gate. Presently one of them took a key from
her pocket, unlocked it and went in; and then a gentleman of our party
recognized in her an old friend.

"This is where our dear Willie is buried," said the lady. "His mother
made me promise to come very often to visit the place."

"The last time I saw him, he was riding on his rocking-horse," replied
the gentleman, gazing round him with new interest.

"Do you remember how he loved to sing?"

"Yes, ah, yes! but, his songs are ended, now."

"No, indeed!" exclaimed the lady, earnestly; "they are but just begun;
I often think how he used to walk with me hour after hour on the beach,
humming to himself his favorite hymn,—

   "'I have a Father in the promised land,
    I have a Father in the promised land.
    My Father calls me, I must go
    To meet him in the promised land.'"


"How little his mother or any of us realized that his Father was
calling him."

"Dear child!" I exclaimed, trying to keep back my tears. "And was he
willing to go at last?"

"He was almost impatient to be gone. One day his mother sat bathing
his hot head, and she said, 'Willie, are you going to leave mother all
alone? I thought you loved your sea-side home,—that you liked to hear
the waves roar and dash up against the rocks; I didn't think you would
be so glad to leave us all.'"

"He looked sadly in her face for a minute, drew her hand to his mouth
and kissed it, and then smiles lighted up his pale face as he began to
sing,—

   "'I have a Saviour in the promised land,
    I have a Saviour in the promised land.
    My Saviour calls me, I must go
    To meet him in the promised land.'"

"'Don't cry so, mother,' he said, as he felt her tears drop on his
hand; 'do let me sing the rest.' And then in a voice almost of rapture
he went on,—"

   "'I'll away, I'll away to the promised land,
    I'll away, I'll away to the promised land.
    My Saviour calls me, I must go
    To meet him in the promised land.'"

"Not an hour before he died, and after he seemed to have lost
consciousness, we heard a low, murmuring sound, and on listening
intently he was once more repeating these words. I love to come here,"
added the lady, looking with moistened eyes at the playthings which had
belonged to her beloved nephew, "but I love still better to think of
him as he is now—a bright angel before the throne of God, tuning his
harp to the praises of God forever and forever."

Dear little boy or girl who may road this story of Willie's grave, will
you not try to live so that when your heavenly Father calls, you will
gladly obey the summons to heaven? This lovely child was surrounded by
everything to make life pleasant. He lived by the sea, where he could
see the ships ride by in all their grandeur. He could wander along the
smooth beach and pick up glistening shells and stones. His parents had
money, and were ready to grant every desire of his heart; and yet he
was willing to leave all, and lay his body to rest in the ground. Why
could he do this? It was because he had a Friend—a Father—a Saviour in
heaven, whom he loved better than the rolling ocean, his pleasant home,
or even than his earthly parents.

For more than two years Willie had tried to please this heavenly
Friend, by keeping his commandments, by honoring his father and mother,
being kind to his brother, correcting the faults in his temper, and
doing good to those about him.

This was the reason why Willie could answer so cheerfully when God
called him home,—

   "'I'll away, I'll away to the promised land,
    My Saviour calls me, I must go
    To meet him in the promised land.'"



The Substitute.

CHAPTER I.

GRANDMA FROST.

"I'm glad that old woman don't live at our house," exclaimed Helen
Dobbs, in a petulant tone. "Is she any relation of yours, or what is it
makes you wait on her so?"

"Oh, there's a sad story about her," answered Jane. "I must get mother
to tell you about her son."

"Well, I know I wouldn't be bothered with her. Just think how often she
calls you to do something, when we're having such a good time at our
play."

"Yes, I know; and I'm sorry to say that often I am angry to be
interrupted. Then she is sometimes cross herself; and I have to think
of all we owe her before I can readily oblige her. But mother says,
instead of hurting me, all this discipline will do me good, if I keep
my own heart right."

"I'm sure, Jane, I don't know what you mean."

"Well, perhaps I don't explain it right. But I'll try to tell you. One
day, Grandma Frost—we always call her grandma, though she's no relation
to us—was sick, or nervous, or cross, and as I was going down stairs I
heard her speak quite sharply to mother. I was real angry; you know, I
have naturally a very passionate temper, though I do try to control it,
so I ran right into the room with my face as red as fire."

"'I shouldn't think you would speak so,' I exclaimed, 'when mother does
nothing but wait upon you from morning till night.'"

Helen laughed aloud. "That's right! What did the old woman say?"

"No. I knew I was doing wrong; at least as soon as I had spoken. And
when mother fixed her eyes upon me in such a grieved way, I was sorry
enough to bite my lips off. 'Go out of the room,' grandma said. I ran
to my chamber, and had a great cry. Then mother came in and sat down
by me, and talked, oh, so beautifully! I cried harder than ever, but
I wasn't angry then; and ever since, when she asks me to do something
which I dislike I have only to stop a moment and call to mind what
mother said, to be ready to do anything grandma asks."

"Well, you may do it if you like," cried Helen, her nose turned up in
a most contemptuous manner; "but I shan't be such a fool as to humor
all her whims. All I can say is, that if such an old woman were at our
house I'd soon make her mend her manners or I'd contrive some way to be
rid of her."

"You wouldn't say so, if you knew how she came to be here," was the
tremulous reply. "I can't tell you, for I always begin to cry, but
mother will; I'll ask her this very evening."

Company called, however, which prevented this; and a day or two of
Helen's visit passed, without her learning the reason for Mrs. Dobbs's
great kindness and forbearance with a woman, evidently from a low
station in life, and who exhibited no gratitude for such favors.

One morning Mrs. Dobbs accompanied her husband to the city, about four
miles distant, and Jane was away on an errand. Helen, therefore, was
left to amuse herself as she pleased. She read in the library until she
was tired, and then sauntered through the hall up-stairs to her own
chamber.

As she passed Mrs. Frost's room she heard a querulous voice, calling,
"Miss Dobbs!" "Jane! Jane!"

Helen, naughty girl that she was began to laugh. "Now I'll have some
fun," she thought.

She kept quiet, and the calling ceased; but the moment she began to
make her boots squeak, the old lady cried, "Jane!" "Miss Dobbs! I want
yer."

"I have a great mind," said Helen to herself, "to go in and give her a
real blowing up. I'm sure she deserves it, and it's somebody's duty;
for she does abuse, Mrs. Dobbs shamefully." She started to go into the
room just as the old lady began to sob out, "I might as well be dead
and laid by the side of Jotham; for nobody cares for me now."

"What are you crying for?" inquired Helen, walking toward the bed.

"Where's Miss Dobbs?"

"Gone to the city."

"And Jane, too?"

"No; Jane has gone down to the store."

"They might have told me they were going," faltered the old woman,
beginning to cry again.

"'Tisn't very likely Mrs. Dobbs would ask your leave every time she
wished to go out," answered Helen, her anger getting the better of her
prudence. "I think 'twould appear much better in you to be thankful
that you have a good home here, instead of finding fault all the time
as you do. I'm sure everybody sees how Mrs. Dobbs and Jane make slaves
of themselves to put up with your whims."

Mrs. Frost grew deadly pale, and caught her breath with difficulty; but
without noticing it, Helen went on;

"Even the servants complain of your ill temper; and Hannah gave notice
yesterday that she must leave if she couldn't get better rest, for what
with your scolding and whining she didn't sleep half the night. I'm
sure if they have to keep you here, I don't see what you want to make
yourself so disagreeable for."

The old woman threw up her hands, as if her distress was beyond
her power to express, and then sank back on the pillow, with such
unmistakable marks of suffering that Helen became alarmed.

She flew to the bell-rope and pulled it violently, and then dashed a
tumbler full of water in the sick woman's face.

"What is it? What's the matter?" cried Hannah, rushing into the room.

"I was only talking to her, and she fell right back," responded the
young girl.

"Well, let me come, for you look about as pale as she does. Why, I
declare! I do believe she's dead or in a swoon. Ring again, miss; will
you, for the cook? I'm sure, I don't think mistress can blame me, for I
only ran down to do some little chores; and I left her asleep, too."

Mrs. Peasely, the cook, now made her appearance; and a moment after
Jane came running gaily up the stairs.

"Why, Helen, what are you crying about?" she said putting her arms
round her friend's neck.

"Don't speak to me now!" was the impatient response. "I'm frightened
almost to death."

"Jane," called out Mrs. Peasely, coming to the door, "Do run and find
somebody to go for the doctor. I do wish your mother was here."

The young girl darted to the side of the bed, gave one lingering glance
at the pale form lying there, and then sprang forward exclaiming, "I'll
go myself; I saw him riding down the street."

Before the doctor came, Mrs. Dobbs returned from town. Mrs. Frost,
under the vigorous measures of the cook, had revived from her long
swoon, and was lying quiet and apparently asleep, while Helen was in
her room writing a request to her mother to send for her to go home.

Jane came in and began to expostulate. "Why!" said she, "your mother
gave you leave to stay all summer."

Helen burst into tears. "I wouldn't stay here when that old woman dies;
no, not for the world." She shuddered as she added, "I don't like to be
in the house when there are death and funerals."

"We must all die, sometime," murmured Jane, in a thoughtful tone.
"But," she added after a minute, "mother doesn't think she will die at
present; she says she has been subject to these faint turns ever since
Jotham died; only she staid in this longer than usual."

"I heard her speak of Jotham," said Helen, growing very red. "Was he
her son?"

"Yes, but I can't bear to think about him." Tears gushed to Jennie's
eyes; but she put her hand on her friend's letter, and saying, "Don't
send it!" left the room.



CHAPTER II.

THE SOLDIER.

FOR several days Mrs. Frost was very ill. The doctor came regularly
morning and evening, and pronounced her case a critical one. Mrs.
Dobbs looked pale and careworn; Jane, sorrowful, and Helen, with an
increasing weight on her conscience, peevish and irritable.

The poor girl believed that her conduct had induced the old woman's
sickness, and might be the means of her death; but this she kept
strictly in her own breast, only replying to Jane's constant inquiries,
"I am homesick."

At length the worst symptoms began to abate. The invalid's appetite
returned, and hope was entertained that she would recover from this
attack.

Mrs. Dobbs was unwearied in her care and tenderness. Mr. Dobbs searched
the market for game and other dainties to tempt the palate of his sick
guest. Jennie ran up and down stairs with new alacrity; sacrificing
her own wishes to the happiness of the old woman. Helen only remained
gloomy and restless.

"What can it mean?" she asked herself one day, when she overheard Mrs.
Dobbs praising the servants for their ready assistance during their
late affliction, adding that five dollars had been added to the credit
of each of them. "What reason have they for treating her so well? If it
was their own mother, they couldn't do more."

Since that eventful day when she had gone uninvited into the sick room,
she had never entered there; but now, one morning, Jane came running to
find her, saying, "Grandma Frost asked for you; she wants to see you!"

"I wont go!" exclaimed Helen, blushing violently. "If you and your
family choose to run at her beck and call, you may; but I sha'n't."

"Why, Helen!" cried her friend, regarding her with surprise. "What does
make you so prejudiced against grandma?"

"Who is in there?" inquired the young girl, without replying.

"Nobody now. Mother's lying down. You know she watched again last
night, and grandma is as kind and pleasant as possible. I never knew
anybody so changed. Come, do go up with me."

"What do you suppose she wants me for?"

"For nothing particular. She asked whether you were here yet, and then
said she would like to see you."

Helen rose without a word and followed her friend to the chamber.

The old woman fixed her sharp eyes a moment upon Helen's face, then
smiled as she held out her hand.

"I'm sorry you've been so sick," faltered the young girl in a scarcely
articulate tone.

In truth she was greatly shocked. She could scarcely breathe. The sight
of that haggard face, and those sunken eyes, so affected her, that she
longed to run from the room.

Still holding her hand, the old woman said, "Jennie tells me you read
beautifully; will you read a chapter for me?"

"In a minute, I will." Poor girl! she felt it absolutely necessary for
her to breathe the air, she was so stifled. She ran down the stairs,
and did not stop until she had reached the arbor.

"Oh! how sick she does look!" she cried out, "What if she should die?
I never, never will give way to my temper again! But I must go back; I
can't stay here. I must go and read to her."

Mrs. Dobbs had arisen from her couch to give the invalid her medicine.
When Helen entered, she noticed a slight flush on her patient's
countenance, and moved her hand that the young girl had better retire.

"I want her here," said Mrs. Frost, with her sharp ringing tone. "I
want to tell her, and to tell you, Miss Dobbs, and you, Jane, that
if I am cross and impatient, I do thank you for your kindness and
forbearance."

Her voice trembled as she added, "You must forgive an old heart-broken
woman for her peevishness and impatience; but never think I don't
realize how much you and yours have done to comfort me; no, don't think
that."

Mrs. Dobbs gazed in surprise at the sick woman, and then at Helen's
flushed cheeks.

"There is something here which I do not understand," she said to
herself; "but this is not the time to inquire about it."

In the evening, Jane happened to be sitting with Helen in the parlor,
when Mrs. Dobbs entered.

After a moment, Jane said, "Mother, will you please to tell Helen about
Jotham? She can't understand, why we have grandma here, and do so much
for her."

"With pleasure, my dear; though it is a sad story." She drew her sewing
from the basket, and began.

"It was near the commencement of the dreadful war which is now
desolating our country, that your father considered it his duty to
enlist. He joined a regiment then forming in —; and after arranging his
business as speedily as possible, left for the camp. Here he remained
for, several weeks, expecting soon to be ordered to Washington, when
one evening a messenger came; requesting his immediate presence in the
city, on account of trouble in his store. The head clerk had absconded
with money and notes to a large amount. Unless some vigorous measures
were taken, the labor and savings of a whole life would be sacrificed.
I was greatly distressed, and knew not what to do. I went to my
chamber, and endeavored to throw my burden upon one who has promised to
aid his suffering children. All at once I determined to send to one of
our neighbors for a young man, and get him to go to the camp."

"Jotham Frost was the only child of the sick woman up-stairs. At that
time she was in good health, earning a comfortable support by her
own exertions. Jotham had, from a child, been often employed in our
family,—sometimes to pick strawberries, sometimes to run of errands,
and of later years as groom. He was extremely fond of horses, and had a
peculiar faculty for managing them."

"On the night I speak of, he at once signified his willingness to
proceed to L—, and carry a letter to his master."

"The next evening, Mr. Dobbs reached home. But he was so changed I
scarcely knew him. Camp life had proved unfavorable to his health, and
he now and then startled me by a dry, hollow cough. Then he had passed
the whole day in the city, trying to straighten out his affairs, and
assist the police who were in pursuit of the wicked clerk. He retired
to bed, but he could not sleep. He rose, and, going into the next room,
began to pace the floor. Then I heard his voice in prayer. I joined
him and kneeled by his side. He was beseeching his heavenly Father to
make known to him the path of duty. 'If my country demands of me this
sacrifice,—my health; my life; my property,—if it is thy will, O God!
help me to submit cheerfully. I give it all into thy hands, lead me by
thy finger.'"

"After this he retired to bed and slept peacefully for several hours."

"When we went to breakfast, and a sad meal it was, I saw Jotham busy
in the yard with the horses. I noticed that he kept looking toward the
window, and throwing up the sash I spoke to him.

"'I want to see Mr. Dobbs, afore he leaves the house!' he said eagerly."

"We went through the form of eating, and then once more committed
ourselves and all our anxieties to God."

"Your father then went out to see Jotham. I stood gazing abstractedly
from the window, and I wondered what could be the subject of
conversation. We often ask God to help us, and then we wonder at his
readiness to do so. While we had been speaking God had heard. But of
this I knew nothing at the time. I saw Jotham growing every moment more
earnest and excited. I witnessed my husband's motion of dissent again
and again; then they came quickly toward the house, but passed the door
and went toward the cottage of Mrs. Frost."

"I cannot tell you yet what an hour that was which followed to the
poor, lone widow. I knew nothing of it at the time. At the end of it my
husband and Jotham came back together. The young man was dressed in his
Sunday suit, and looked bright and handsome. There was a light in his
eye I had never noticed before."

"'Put the black mare into the open buggy as quickly as possible,' said
my husband in an excited tone, 'and I'll be ready.'"

"I couldn't account for it, but he seemed anxious to avoid my eye. He
made some hurried changes in his dress, then was about to leave the
room, but turned and pressed me in his arms, whispering, 'Pray for me
to-day, Mary; put your trust in God and hope for the best.'"

"His tone was so earnest that I began to weep. I had not the slightest
suspicion what he was about to do. The day passed wearily enough. Had I
known that my nearest neighbor was crying her very life away, I should
have tried to comfort her. Many, many times I retired to my closet and
asked my Father in heaven to prosper my dear husband in his endeavors
to arrange his business; and if trial were before us, to help us submit
cheerfully to his will."

"It was nearly dusk when I heard the sound of wheels; and, rushing to
the door, saw my husband sitting by the side of Widow Frost, while
Jotham walked proudly up the yard by them. He took his mother in his
arms and set her upon the steps, while Mr. Dobbs called a servant to
take away the horse, and then followed them into the house."

"'Call Jane and Thomas,' he said to me. 'I want to see you all in the
parlor.'"



CHAPTER III.

JOTHAM'S DEATH.

"I HAD seated Mrs. Frost on the sofa, and Jotham was near her with his
arm around her waist. I waited in wonder the explanation of all this,
for now I saw that the widow's face bore the marks of excessive grief."

"While we delayed for the children, Mr. Dobbs walked to the window,
and again was that hollow cough which struck like a death-knell on my
heart."

"'Wife,' he began, when they entered, 'last night you heard me ask God
for help. He has heard my prayer. I had enlisted in the service of my
country, but had become already aware that I never could endure camp
life; then came the dreadful announcement that unless I could give
personal and untiring attention to my business, all the savings of my
life would be lost. I went to the commanding officer and tried to be
released, for a time if no more; but this was impossible. Cavalry were
needed, and we must proceed to Washington at once. I came home with a
heavy heart. I went to bed and tried to bear up under the burden like
a man. Then I remembered that as a Christian I was not obliged to bear
it alone. I fell on my knees and besought my Saviour to help me. While
I was speaking he heard me. He put it into the heart of this dear boy
to offer himself as my substitute. While I was sleeping quietly, he was
pleading with his widowed mother to consent that he should leave her.
He is her all; and is it strange that for a long time she refused?'"

"Mrs. Frost had been weeping silently all the time my husband spoke;
now she cried aloud."

"Jotham tried to soothe her. 'Keep up good courage, mother,' he said.
'You'll live to see me a colonel yet. The war wont last forever, and I
shall be a great man when I come home. Mr. Dobbs has promised to take
care of you while I'm gone.'"

"And then my husband called us all to witness that he would provide
for the widowed mother, as long as God gave him the ability. I gladly
joined in the promise. I need not stop to tell you more of that scene.
Mr. Dobbs gave Jotham the black mare, and all his outfit. He joined the
regiment of cavalry at once. His only charge being as he rode away,
'Take good care of mother till I come home!'"

"Mr. Dobbs and I rode to L—, to see them off, and I thought there was
no one in the company who looked so handsome in his uniform, or rode
his horse so proudly as Jotham."

"Mrs. Frost, who could not be persuaded to accompany us, lest she
should always dream of him in battle, tried, for our sakes, to appear
cheerful. She insisted that she was happier at home where everything
reminded her of him, than she should be to come here."

"Every night, either Jane or I used to go down to her cottage and read
the papers. If there was anything concerning the regiment of cavalry
to which Jotham belonged, she would cut it out and lay it between the
leaves of her large family Bible."

Mrs. Dobbs paused as if reluctant to proceed, while Helen who had been
stealthily wiping the tears from her eyes, exclaimed,—

"Oh, I'm afraid Jotham is dead!"

"Every week," continued the lady with a sigh, "the widow received a
letter from her son. He was well, and enjoying himself exceedingly. He
said that he had never for one moment regretted offering himself as a
substitute; that his heart was set on going to the war, and if he had
not done it then, he should later."

"Mr. Dobbs wrote the commanding officer, with whom he was well
acquainted, and received an answer that Jotham's conduct was
unexceptionable; that on the Sabbath when many of the soldiers were
strolling about, he was in his tent reading his Bible, or with a few
congenial companions singing hymns."

"At last there came the news of a terrible battle. My husband opened
the paper in the city, read that the — regiment of cavalry were
engaged, and turned, with almost suspended breath, to the list of
killed and wounded. Alas, he saw it too soon! There it was, '—Cavalry,
Jotham Frost.' The thought of the poor mother overcame him. Oh, what a
comfort it was in that hour of sorrow, that for the early lost there
was no occasion to mourn! He was safe at home, resting forever in the
bosom of his God. He had fought his fight, and gone to receive his
reward."

"Mr. Dobbs came home at once, and went alone to communicate the sad
tale. The widow clasped her hands, and gave one shriek of agony,
exclaiming, 'I knew it, I felt it. I was sure I should never see him
again!' From that time to this she has never known a well day. The
sorrow pierced to her very heart. Do you wonder, Helen, that we are
anxious to do everything for her comfort? Do you wonder that we try to
bear with her little failings, and to make her path to the grave as
easy and comfortable as is in our power? She has sacrificed her all to
us, for my husband would never have let Jotham go without his mother's
consent. Is it too much for us to share our home with her, to soothe
her grief, to bear patiently with her feeble wailings—the wailings of a
broken heart?"

How could Helen find words to reply? Her conscience had condemned her
loudly in the morning; and now her heart bitterly reproached her for
adding to the burden of one who had already suffered so much. Her head
drooped upon her breast as she thought, "What would Mrs. Dobbs, what
would her husband, say of me if they knew how I had treated the old
woman?"

"Only think!" cried Jennie, "but for her I might now be without a
father."

Helen burst into tears, and ran quickly, from the room.

The next morning when Mrs. Dobbs went to inquire how the invalid passed
the night, she found the young visitor lingering near the door of the
sick room.

"I should like to see Mrs. Frost," she began, in a confused manner, her
cheeks glowing like fire. "Can I go in a minute?"

"Oh, yes!" answered the lady, with a smile.

Helen walked straight to the bed, and hiding her face in her hands,
said quickly, "I am sorry I said that to you the other day; I didn't
know then—I hadn't heard—about—Jotham." With a convulsive movement of
the throat to keep, back the sobs, she went on: "If Mrs. Dobbs will let
me, I should like to stay by you and take care of you, and love you for
Jotham's sake."

The old woman grew very pale, but answered calmly, "I am glad for your
own sake that you are sorry; but you have done me good. My grief was
making me selfish. You told me plainly how disagreeable my conduct
made me appear, and I determined, God helping me, I would show out the
gratitude that is in my heart toward this dear family. Now, my child,
you may read me a few verses from the good Book, and then I must rest."

From this time Helen and Jane vied with each other who could do most
for the comfort of grandma. Helen was wholly unused to sickness, and
was often awkward in her services; but all saw that her heart was
touched, and her kind friend hoped the lesson would be of great benefit
to her through life.

Certainly, during her visit, she, for the first time, learned the
secret of true happiness. The sacrifice of our own wishes to the
comfort of others brings a rich reward to our own hearts.

"O Jennie!" exclaimed the impulsive girl, clasping her arms around her
friend's neck; "how quickly the summer has passed; and how pleasantly,
since that dreadful time when grandma was so ill. How differently I
feel toward her from what I did when I first came. I love her now
almost more than anybody else."

"Yes, my dear," remarked Mrs. Dobbs, "because with her is connected the
consciousness of having done right."



The Hospital.

CHAPTER I.

ALICK'S DYING SONG.

MY young reader, were you ever in a hospital? Did you ever walk through
the long rooms, called wards, among the rows of neat beds, with the
white curtains before each couch, that the sufferer within may be
entirely hidden from the view of even her nearest neighbors? Did you
ever see the hospital surgeons, on what the patients call "student's
day," when they go from one ward to another; a train of young surgeons
following behind, visiting each couch in succession, and enquiring into
the symptoms of each poor sufferer?

In one of the large hospitals belonging to the city of B —, there one
morning lay a young girl, apparently about twenty years of age. Her
name was Ruth Martin. She had been very sick, and had had a severe
operation performed; but she was now better, though not the slightest
trace of color had yet visited her cheeks or lips. Lying constantly in
bed, as she had been obliged to do for several weeks, she had become
exceedingly restless, and the night seemed very long. It was now near
five o'clock, and would soon be day. She lay for some time amusing
herself by watching those of her neighbors who came within her line of
vision. Most of them were asleep, while the night watchers or nurses,
who sit up regularly every night and sleep through the day, were
leaning drowsily back in their rocking chairs.

The curtains were all drawn back from the beds, and presently Ruth saw
Miss Alden, the head nurse of her ward, step softly from a side room
and open the door into the next apartment, for the better circulation
of the air.

There seemed some unusual movement in the adjoining room, but she could
not see what it was. "Could Alick be dying?" she asked herself, her
pulse beating wildly.

"Miss Stiles," she called softly, "I'm so thirsty I can't sleep."

Nurse arose mechanically, and brought her a glass of water. "I wish I
knew," she said, "how Alick is this morning?"

"Hush, child! he's just gone. His mother, poor thing, was with him till
three, when she went home to wash for an hour or two. I'm afraid he'll
be off before she gets back, and that'll just about break her heart."

At this minute, there arose from the next room, a sound, low, but
inexpressibly sweet and touching. It was the voice of the dying boy,
singing with clear, distinct articulation, the words of the beautiful
hymn,—

   "I want to be an angel,
     And with the angels stand,—
   A crown upon my forehead,
     A harp within my hand.

   "There, right before my Saviour,
     So glorious and so bright,
   I'd wake the sweetest music
     And praise him day and night."

With the last lines the voice faltered; then there came a quick, short
gasp for breath; a bright smile broke out all over the pale face, and
before the echo of the words had died out of the room, the soul of
the patient sufferer had fled away from his tenement of clay, to the
presence and embrace of the Saviour he loved.

The nurse who had so tenderly watched by his side, gently closed his
eyes; breathing a sigh of heartfelt sympathy for the absent mother,
when, with a quick step, that mother entered the room. She gave one
keen, penetrating glance around; then her eye fell on the good nurse
who only pointed to the calm, almost smiling countenance, lying so
peacefully in the early morning light.

Still her heart refused to comprehend the truth. "He is but sleeping!"
she said, softly approaching and placing her hand on his cheek.

"Oh, Alick!" she cried, as the cold marble touch chilled the blood in
her veins; "gone without a word of farewell to your poor, desolate
mother!" and throwing herself on her knees she hid her face in her
hands, while great sobs shook her whole frame.

Two men now approached with long boards and handles attached, which
they call stretchers, to bear away the dead body to another apartment.

They stood a moment, out of respect to the absorbing grief of the bowed
form, and then the nurse gently touched her.

She understood at once that she must bid farewell, her long farewell,
to the dear object of her affections. Stooping forward she lifted the
lifeless body in her arms, and pressed her lips on the cheeks, the
brow, eyes, and lips of the departed.

"Farewell, darling!" she whispered, tears raining down her cheeks;
"farewell till I come to you. You're safe now with Jesus, and I'll be
with you before long." Then without another word, she turned, and,
hiding her face in her shawl, left the room.

The patients were now all wide awake. Ruth could see the men bearing
slowly along the body so lately full of life, and two or three patients
devoutly crossing themselves, as it passed close to their bed. For a
few moments there was a solemn stillness throughout the two wards.
One of their number had passed from time to eternity; had exchanged
the trials and pains of earth for the triumphs and glories of heaven.
Some, and among them Ruth, asked herself, "am I prepared, as Alick
was, for the glorious transformation,—a sinner one moment, a saint the
next?" She breathed a short prayer that she, too, might be ready when
her summons came; when looking up, she saw the kind face of Miss Alden
bending over her.

"How do you feel, this morning, Ruth?"

"Oh, Miss Alden! Alick is dead. I have not thought of myself," was the
quick reply.

"Little dear, so he is! He wanted to be an angel, and Jesus answered
his prayer right away. If we were all as ready as he was, 'twould be a
happy thing for us. I hope you love your Saviour, Ruth!"

Her eyes fell, as she answered softly, "I'm afraid not!"

"Well, don't delay a minute then, to seek him for your friend. I've
been in the wards long enough to know, if I never knew it before, that
religion is the only thing that can carry us safely through the dark
valley; and it makes the poor things so happy, too. Death is no king of
terrors to those who love Jesus. He is their dearest friend, come to
call them home to their mansion above the skies."

Ruth lay pondering these words; though her eyes followed the good nurse
as she went from one couch to another, smoothing the clothes over one
restless sufferer, or giving medicine to another.

Then the dumb waiters, or dummies, as they were called, came up loaded
with the breakfast; when the nurse set the table, to which all who
were able to walk soon seated themselves. To those who were strictly
confined to their beds the nurses carried food nicely arranged on
little waiters.

The meal was scarcely concluded, when a porter appeared at the door,
bearing in his arms a child about five years of age, which he conveyed
to a large chair turning back like a couch, and then left her in the
care of Miss Alden.

"Bad case!" Ruth heard him whisper, "leg burnt to a crisp!"

Here, then, was a new appeal to the sympathy of the patients; and no
one can tell what a relief it is to these poor suffering ones to have
a child, a loving, helpless child, before their eyes to divert their
attention from themselves.

Even the poor Englishwoman whose face was swollen to the size of two,
with erysipelas, and whose constant cry was, "Oh, this hitch in my
face!" held her breath to gaze at the pale new comer.

The child, whose name was Mary Larkin, was dressed with exquisite
neatness and even taste. Her hair, which was chestnut brown, was
smoothly parted from her forehead; a narrow frill was basted into the
neck of her dress, which was of soft blue merino; one tiny foot, which
had escaped from the shawl which covered her, was cased in a dainty
little slipper, the elastic evenly crossed above the open-work sock,
while the embroidered pantalet was just visible.

Mary took kindly to Miss Alden, at once, as indeed every body did. She
clung tightly to her hand casting shy glances around. It was a novel
scene to her, and for a few moments so occupied her attention that she
forgot her pain.

In a kind, motherly voice Miss Alden asked, "Wouldn't you like to lie
in a nice little house, as the other people do, and have your dolly,
and some pretty playthings in there to play with?"

"Yes ma'am, I should."

"Well, let go my hand a minute, and I'll have it all ready for you.
You're a good little girl, I am sure."

"I guess you're going to be my mother, now," said Mary, with an arch
glance which altered her whole countenance.



CHAPTER II.

THE PATIENT CHILD.

MARY LARKIN was the daughter of a tailor. He had two other children,
one son of seven years, and a daughter scarcely as many months. Hers
was a sad case. One day she and her brother Thomas were playing in
the kitchen where their mother was washing; the baby was lying in
his cradle, amusing himself with his toes, when suddenly there was a
dreadful shriek of distress, and Mrs. Larkin turned to see Mary in a
large kettle of boiling water. Thomas had become angry with his little
sister and pushed her there.

On reaching the child, the mother found one foot and ankle completely
submerged, so that when the stocking was removed, not only the skin,
but some of the flesh came with it.

As soon as it was possible, a physician was summoned, who prescribed
for a few days, and then advised her to be sent to the hospital, where
she could have constant care. He did not tell the almost distracted
mother that her child would, doubtless, have to suffer the loss of a
limb, though he anticipated it from the first, and was sure it would be
better, both for the mother and child, that she should be removed.

As soon as these particulars about the young stranger were known, they
excited universal sympathy. Mary appeared to be a lively, affectionate
child. Just now there were marks of suffering on her face; her eyes had
a dark circle around them, and her brow was often contracted; but there
was an occasional sparkle in her bright orbs, a slight elevation of the
eyebrows, which made her almost beautiful.

She was Irish, and had a rich brogue quite peculiar even among the
children brought up in America. It was not many days before she had
given her own names to the different persons about her. One of the
nurses whose name was Cowles, she designated as "Miss Knowles," and
never varied from this title. The kind lady who every few days brought
her flowers, fruit and playthings, she called "the lady in black." The
woman with the dreadful hitch in her face, was "Patty McNiles's bye,"
because she was always talking about her "bye," boy.

Though Mary was a constant sufferer, she scarcely ever complained. At
first she sympathized too keenly with those about her, and often asked
Miss Alden, whom she called "Darling," whether it was not time to give
such a patient her medicine, whether it would not do Ruth's hands good
to spat them. She had seen this done once when the circulation seemed
suspended.

Sitting in her lounging chair, her poor burnt limb laid on a pillow
before her, her dolly over her shoulder, she seemed to notice
everything which passed around her.

One day Ruth told her about Alick, and how sweetly he sung just before
he went to heaven. She was silent for some time after this, and the
next time she saw the nurse, asked softly,—

"Darling, do you think I shall die as Alick did? If I do, will you let
me sing?"

The house-doctor used to come every day, and apply fresh starch
bandages to Mary's limb. This caused her the keenest agony, and all
her fortitude could not keep her from uttering sharp cries. But she
soon regained her cheerfulness, and seemed to comfort herself with the
thought that it was over for that day.

One morning, Ruth, whose couch was near Mary's, and who had just been
separating a bunch of hot-house flowers to share with her little
friend, saw that the surgeon stopped longer than usual, by her lounging
chair; that he made some explanations in technical terms to the
students around him, then gave a few directions to Miss Alden before he
passed on.

Poor Mary tried hard to be patient, but could not repress some screams.
As soon as the surgeon had bound up the limb, the smiles broke out
again over her face, though her lashes wore yet heavy with tears. "I
guess you've got a cent, doctor," she said archly.

This was said in consequence of a promise he made her one day, if she
would be a good girl while he dressed her leg, he would give her a cent.

The doctor laughed, and threw a penny into her lap, when many of the
students followed his example.

In the afternoon the porter who brought Mary up, came for her again.
Miss Alden expected him, and had her patient ready; but there was no
smile on her face as she saw the child borne carefully away.

"Where is Mary going?" cried Ruth.

"She has gone to the operating-room, to have her foot and ankle taken
off," answered the nurse in a faltering voice.

"Oh, dear, I'm sorry!" came from one and another of the patients.

"She'll never know it, little dear," added the nurse. "She'll take
ether, and a blessed thing ether is too."

In less than an hour Mary returned, and was laid tenderly on her bed.
She seemed exhausted, and had scarcely recovered her consciousness. She
smiled, though, when "Darling" bent over and kissed her, and then fell
quietly asleep.

It was not until the next morning, that she seemed aware of what had
taken place. She gazed at her limb as if she could not understand how
her foot had disappeared; then, as if suddenly realizing her loss, her
voice quivered, and there was scarcely a dry eye about her, as she
repeatedly inquired,—

"How will I walk about, now?"

Toward her brother, who in a fit of passion had maimed her for life,
she seemed to cherish not the slightest resentment; but talked often of
him and her baby brother, in the most affectionate terms. Visitors were
extremely kind to her, and seemed to vie with each other who could do
most for her comfort. On such occasions she would always portion off
her toys or cake, saying in her own rich brogue, "This shall be for
Tommy; and this, for baby; and this, for me."

It was astonishing how soon she reconciled herself to the idea of the
loss she had sustained. No one knew where she picked up the word, but
when she accidentally hit her wounded limb, instead of crying, she
would say,—

"Oh, Mary! I'm sorry for your poor stump!"

For a few days she suffered much less than before the amputation, and
entered into whatever was ludicrous or mirthful, with all her heart.

When the patients were able to be out of bed, there were a few rocking
chairs which they could use. One woman who was dropsical claimed one of
these for her own exclusive use. Even when she was too tired to remain
out of bed, she would remonstrate loudly against its removal.

Ruth, who was now convalescent, had often watched her proceedings with
much merriment, and one time when all was quiet, and the night-nurse
absent from the room for a moment, she slipped from her bed and removed
the chair to quite the other end of the apartment.

The woman awoke with the first ray of light, and soon discovered the
loss of her chair. With a shout that roused every one from their
slumbers, she called Miss Stiles, who was innocently reposing in it, to
bring it back at once.

"I'll know who did this," she exclaimed looking defiantly about. "I'll
know it before night!"

When the doctor made his morning call, instead of answering his
question as to how she had slept, she gave him a description of the
kind of treatment to which she was exposed.

"But I'll know who did it; I'll know," she kept repeating.

"You're worse off than the woman with a hitch in her face," he said
with a quiet smile; "you have a hitching chair. But I dare say Miss
Alden will make it all right."

There was some inquiry made as to who was the author of the mischief;
but without any discovery. The woman grumbled all day, that she
was "dacent,—as dacent as any one in the hospital. She had had two
husbands, and was as dacent as any one, and would not submit to such
tratement."

When night came, she was evidently worse; but nothing would induce her
to retire until the rest had done so; and then she made sure of her
prize by tying her garters together, fastening one end to the chair,
and the other round her neck.

When the doctor came the next day, he found her so, and with a much
quickened pulse.

"Did you move the chair?" he asked softly, approaching Ruth's bed.

He had seen her eyes sparkle with merriment, and concluded her the
rogue.

"Yes, sir, I did it."

"Well, you had better keep your bed at night, in future."

Little Mary, as well as the others, amused herself talking about the
woman with a chair tied round her neck. They all saw how selfish she
was, and how disagreeable her selfishness made her. Poor woman, she
lived but a short time after this, and died lamenting that since she
came to the hospital she had "lost her muff,—a fine dacent one, too."

But soon, Mary's limb below the knee began to show signs of
mortification; and after a few days of severe suffering, it was found
necessary to have another operation, and take it off higher.

She understood now what was to be done; but when Miss Alden told her
the surgeons would do it while she was asleep so that it wouldn't hurt
her, she submitted without a word.

The most remarkable trait in this patient child was her truthfulness.
She had evidently been well taught at home, for nothing would induce
her to tell a lie.

She used often to call one and another of the patients to her chair to
button her dolly's dress, or tie a string in her apron.

"Come here, Maggy Jones," she called one day. "Please come here!"

"No, I can't; my foot is cut off," answered the girl, laughing.

"O Maggy, that's a wicked lie! I see your two feet; oh, where will you
go now?"

This she said in a voice of great distress, and never afterwards
believed anything the girl told her.

One day, after the doctor had been playfully teasing her, pinching her
cheeks, etc., she said, "I don't like Dr. P—, he's a maninger."

Nurse made her repeat it, and they all laughed, though they couldn't
discover what "maninger" meant.

The next day the doctor said gravely, as though he felt hurt, "Don't
you like me, Mary?"

Her face was dyed with blushes in an instant; but she replied softly,
"Yes, I do."

"But did you say yesterday you didn't, and call me a dreadful name?"

"Yes, I did; but I like you now."

"What did you call me?"

"A maninger."

"And what is a maninger, pray?"

"Why, it's a—a real bad man; I'm sorry now, though."

"Well, I forgive you," he said patting her head, playfully. "Now,
remember, we are good friends again."

"Did you say so, Mary?" or, "didn't you say this?" were questions often
put to her by the patients, thinking she would deny something she had
said. But no, she would not do it; often ending with the emphatic
words, "I say it's real wicked to tell a lie!"

By and by, Mary was so well that Dr. P— said she must be carried home,
as her bed was needed for another patient. When the ladies who visited
the hospital so often heard that, they loaded her with books and toys,
and some gave her money.

The day she left, the kind doctor put five dollars which had been given
her in small sums, into the bank in her name; and promised if no one
else bought her a cork leg, he would do so; that she could go to school.

Ruth was dismissed about the same time, and others were brought in to
take their places; but Miss Alden did not soon forget her cheerful
little charge, nor the endearing title, "Darling," which Mary had so
lovingly given her. She parted from her with many tears, after making
her promise to come and see "Darling," as soon as she was able.

I have written you this true story, my young readers, that you may
learn in the history of Alick, how peaceful and happy is the death of
those who put their trust in God; and by the contrast between little
Mary and the dropsical old woman; how much more amiable and beloved
are those who endure suffering with meekness and patience, than those
who fret and murmur at every trifling annoyance, or repine at the
allotments of Providence.



Johnny's Fretting.

CHAPTER I.

JOHNNY'S HOME.

"OH, dear!" exclaimed little Johnny, his full, round face drawn up into
a sad scowl, "Oh dear!"

Now I suppose that all the children who read this true story, will
imagine that Johnny was sick, or had cut his finger badly, or perhaps
had fallen down and bumped his head. But no; he was perfectly well, his
fingers were all whole, and he had met with no injury at all.

Perhaps some little Mary or Susy or John, will say, "Johnny must have
lived in an old house, with no bed except some straw thrown upon the
floor, and no food but a mouldy crust, that was why he kept saying,
'Oh, dear!'"

No, God had given him parents who owned a large, pleasant house,
situated on a hill, with winding avenues leading to the front door.
Then there was a beautiful lawn in front. You could not guess in a
whole day what was on the lawn, so I must tell you. It was a brown and
white goat, whose name was Bessie, and her two little kids. The pretty
creatures jumped, and frisked, and danced all over the green grass,
and sometimes ran away behind the house, to the great trouble of their
mother, who was tied, and couldn't follow them. Then Bessie would
begin to cry, like Johnny, "Oh, dear! oh, dear!" She did not say this
in words, but it sounded as if she were complaining of their naughty
behavior.

But I must leave telling you about Bessie, for the present, and finish
describing Johnny's home. The green lawns extended on each side of the
house, but behind the great barn was a kitchen garden, where peas and
beans, and sweet corn and tomatoes grew in abundance for the table.
Then there were long rows of currant-bushes, and raspberry-bushes, and
high blackberries, and beyond these a thriving orchard of apple, pear
and peach trees.

Johnny was very fond of all these things, and as he was well, his
mother allowed him to eat what he wished of them.

In the barn behind the house, there was a horse, named Billy, and two
cows, Sally and Hatty; Sally was mother to Hatty, and nice cows they
were, coming home every night with their great bags of rich milk.

Billy was a very kind horse, and though he would sometimes be a little
frisky (he was five years old, too, just as Johnny was), yet whenever
he felt his young master's light form on his back he would not paw his
feet, nor dance at all. He would stand still till all was ready, and
then trot gently round the walks.

Johnny's father and mother often went to ride, and almost always the
little boy went, too; and then he and his mother had a school as they
rode along. She gave him words to spell, and he would laugh when he
said them right, and give her words. Sometimes she would spell cat
c-p-t, cat. Oh, how the little fellow laughed to think he could spell
better than his mother!

Now when God had been so good to Johnny, and given him such kind
parents, and such a pleasant home, when he was well, and had not hurt
himself at all, what could be the reason that when he woke up in the
morning, and a great many times every day he said, "Oh, dear! oh,
dear!" in that complaining tone.

I am sorry to tell you he had a naughty, wicked habit of fretting.

"Oh, dear! I can't untie the reins to my horse." "Oh, dear! my marbles
keep rolling away under the bed." "Oh, dear! I'm too tired to work, I
want to play." "Oh, dear! need I study, mother? I'm so warm."

This was what Johnny kept saying over and over again every day, and
it troubled his father and mother more and more that their boy, whom
God had surrounded with so many blessings, should be so unthankful and
complaining.

When Johnny was good-natured his face was very pleasant to look upon.
His skin was clear and smooth, his eyes looked out from behind their
brown lashes with a merry glance, his mouth was small and well-shaped.
But no child can fret a great deal without spoiling the face God has
given him, and Johnny's mother was really afraid that his little
features would be so drawn up by his saying "Oh, dear," that they never
would come straight again.

Beside his parents there were others who were greatly troubled at this
habit of Johnny's. He was the youngest of six sons, and the pet of them
all. But now one of his older brothers, who was in size almost a man,
said, one day,—

"What makes Johnny fret so much? I'm tired of hearing him talk in that
whining voice."

A few days after this his brother was going to ride, and Johnny ran out
to the carriage, crying, in an eager voice, "Charlie, may I go with
you?"

"I'm going to make a call, and I'm afraid you'll fret," his brother
answered.

Johnny hung his head, looking very much ashamed, but presently he said,
softly, "I'm going to be a good boy now, and not fret any more."

Charlie smiled. "Well, then, you may go," he said.

They had scarcely gone half a mile before the little boy forgot his
promise, and in a complaining tone, began,—

"I can't take the whip."

"How do you know you can't?" asked his brother.

"Because I know you won't let me."

"You may be sure I sha'n't, when you whine so. But if you had asked
pleasantly, May I take the whip, Charlie? I would have let you. You
must remember you never will gain anything from me by whining."



CHAPTER II.

JOHNNY'S RESOLUTIONS.

JOHNNY looked very sober a few moments; but then his face brightened
up, and a pretty smile danced around his mouth. "I'm sure, now," he
said, "I sha'n't fret any more."

"I'm afraid you will," answered his brother, "because you don't ask God
to help you break off this bad habit. No one can cure himself of doing
wrong by his own strength. When you say your prayers you must ask God
to help you."

"I want to ask Him now," said Johnny.

"Well, shut your eyes, and you may."

"I want to be a good boy," began the child, clasping his little hands.
"Will you please, God, to help me, for Jesus Christ's sake. Amen."

"Now," said Charlie, "when you feel like fretting, just stop a minute
and think. God will put cheerful thoughts in your mind, so you'll
forget what you were complaining about."

"He didn't say He would," murmured Johnny. "I didn't hear anything."

"No; but in the Bible He has promised that if we ask for anything we
shall receive it; that is, if it is best for us to have it. Now we know
it would please Him better to have you the pleasant, good-tempered
little fellow you used to be, rather than the whining boy you are now.
So if you really ask Him from your heart, I'm sure He will help you to
break it off."

When they had made the call, and were returning home, Charlie handed
the long whip to his brother.

"Would you like to hold it?" he asked. "I like to please good boys."

Oh, what a happy feeling swelled up in Johnny's heart. Smiles broke
out all over his face, and his voice was as cheerful as a canary's. He
chattered away about a donkey he expected to have, and a barn he meant
to make for it, and a buggy for the donkey to draw him to school.

Charlie laughed heartily at his wonderful plans, and remembered, with a
little flush, that once he had done just so.

"I like to be good best," said Johnny, with a smile; "and I'm never
going to be naughty again."

The next day his mother was sitting at her work, when she heard Johnny
cry out, "Oh, dear! oh, dear! the stones keep rolling out of my
wheelbarrow. Oh, dear, I don't want to work any more!"

She sat still, but for some time she could hear his voice fretting and
complaining. Then she opened the window and called him in.

"I can't have any dinner, then," he whined out.

"Why, Johnny?"

"Father said I must pick up all these stones, and it makes my head
ache. I don't like to work so hard," he cried, looking in his mother's
face.

"Where are the stones?" she asked, walking into the yard.

"There,—all those."

"One, two, three, four, five, six," counted his mother, laughing. "Oh,
what a great job! Six little stones. There, run and pick them up quick,
and then come into my room. I want to tell you something."

"Will you wait, mother?"

"Yes, if you wont be long."

"Oh, I can do it in a minute!" he said, forgetting all his trouble.

His mother took off his hat and wiped his head, which was quite wet
with perspiration. Then she washed his hands and face with cool water,
and told him to draw his little chair to her side. "We'll have some
talk together," she said.

"Do you remember about that kitty you found?" she asked.

"Oh, yes, mother! It was Mrs. Muzzey's. I carried it home in my arms,
and I didn't cry when it scratched me a little; but she didn't thank me
at all. She just said, 'Well, put her down.'"

The lady smiled at Johnny's indignant tone. "I remember," she went on,
"how long it took you to catch the kitty, and how bravely you held her
when she tried to jump from your arms and run away. Now suppose Mrs.
Muzzey had said, 'I wish you wouldn't trouble me to come to the door—I
can't be running round to wait on children all the time,' do you think
that would have been a good way to show her gratitude to you?"

"Oh, no indeed!"

"But," added the lady, more seriously, "I know a little boy having a
pleasant home, and kind parents, who wish to do all things for his
good. Every morning his heavenly Father supplies him with a nice
breakfast; every noon, with a good dinner; and every night, with a
plentiful supper. He has warm clothes, and a great many other favors.
He ought to be very grateful and happy. He ought to keep lifting up his
heart to God, and saying, 'thank you, God, for all this.' If he has any
little troubles, he ought to remember how many children there are who
have no home nor kind parents nor any pretty toys. He ought to say, I
wont complain, for I have a great many blessings left. But I am sorry
to tell you he does not always do this; he does a great deal worse than
Mrs. Muzzey, who did not thank you for carrying her kitty home, for he
often forgets his mercies, and—"

Johnny's lip began to quiver. "I didn't want to hear about that," he
began. "I wanted to hear a story about the rag pickers."

"Wait awhile; I'll tell you a story some other time. Now I'm afraid
that if that little boy does not break himself of this dreadful habit
of fretting, that God will take away some of his good things, and give
them to another child who will be more thankful. You know you said you
wouldn't carry the kitty home again, because she didn't thank you; so
God may say, This little Johnny don't remember how many good things I
give him. I hear his voice fretting and complaining that he cannot have
everything just as he wishes. I will take away his blessings until he
can be more thankful for them."

Johnny's face grew very red, while his mother was talking, and
presently great tears filled his eyes. "I will be good, mother," he
faltered, for his lip was quivering so he could scarcely speak. "I
don't want God to take you to heaven. I want us to go together. I will
be thankful to Him."

The lady drew her boy to her side, and then they kneeled down together,
and asked their Father in heaven to help Johnny to become good and holy
and obedient like the dear Jesus. They prayed that he might be thankful
that he was not born a heathen child, and taught to bow down to the
idols of wood and stone; but that, as he had early been told about the
true God and the Saviour of sinners, he might begin at once to love and
serve Him.

Johnny listened eagerly to every word of his mother's prayer. When she
had concluded he sprung to his feet, and gazing in her face, asked,
quickly, "Will He do it? Will He help me to be a good boy?"



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE RAG PICKERS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
